(aa-i386)=
# i386

* **Partial-port**

  i386 is a partial-port of Ubuntu, which is supported as a multi-arch
  supplementary architecture.

* **No boot support**

  There is no kernel, no installers, and no bootloaders for i386, thus it
  cannot be booted as pure i386.

* **Self-hosted, natively built**

  All package building is self-hosting, and is built in an i386 chroot on an
  {term}`amd64` host.

## Allowlist

Launchpad has an allowlist of packages that build for i386, which are based on
a seed. This was scoped through the community process. The full set of built
i386 packages also consists of their build and runtime dependencies.

If in doubt, it is helpful to inspect the {ref}`germinate` output for i386
[on Plucky](https://ubuntu-archive-team.ubuntu.com/germinate-output/i386.plucky/i386+build-depends)
or [Jammy](https://ubuntu-archive-team.ubuntu.com/germinate-output/i386.jammy/i386+build-depends).

The "why" column there explains if it comes directly from the i386 allowlist
`I386.$series i386 seed` or indirectly due to a dependency from another package.

## Modifying Dependencies

The allowlist won't be auto-updated, so if (for example) you worked on dropping
a dependency and is confirmed by
[germinate output for i386](https://ubuntu-archive-team.ubuntu.com/germinate-output/i386.noble/i386+build-depends)
you will then need to contact the
[Archive Admins](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-archive) to update the allowlist.

This update of the allowlist needs to be done *before* the sync/rebuild of the
package that was formerly depended on. If this was missed, then after updating
the allowlist the i386 build record can be created using the following command:

```none
copy-package -b --force-same-destination -e $version $pkg
```

In rare cases, this command will fail if this exact package version was
previously built on powerpc; in that case, a no-change rebuild will achieve the
same.

In addition, after that the old binaries need to be removed. Otherwise e.g.
proposed migration will block the new package on "missing build on i386". The
Archive Admins usually do this as
{ref}`part of the regular cleanup <aa-i386-allowlist-updates>`, but if nothing
happens or you want to push on the case one can call to remove it via a removal
bug.

## How to transition `src:foo1` to `src:foo2`

Sometimes, as part of an {term}`ABI` transition `src:foo(N+1)` needs to be
built on i386 to eventually replace `src:fooN`, for example `boost1.71`,
`gcc-11`, etc.

When such a need arises, one should:

1. Ask an Archive Admin to add a new versioned `abi-source` package to `newSet`
   in `update-i386-whitelist` script in `ubuntu-archive-tools`
1. Ask an Archive Admin to run it to update Launchpad's allowlist
1. Then one can upload/sync/no-change rebuild `1src:foo(N+1)` and it will be
   built for i386.

## Proposed migration requested i386 test result, which does not exist

Sometimes, Britney requests test results for i386, despite a source package not
building for i386 at all.

In such a case please contact the Ubuntu Release Team to update the Britney
hint to `badtest` the i386 result. These usually clear on subsequent uploads,
and thus only happen once per source package.

## How to expand i386 port scope

If you genuinely need to increase the scope of the i386 port (i.e. 3rd party
app now needs this i386 library), then
[the community process](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/community-process-for-32-bit-compatibility/12598)
must be used to nominate and get a library added to the i386 seed as the
supported target package.

Alternatively, open bug reports in
[`ubuntu-meta`](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-meta)
asking for `i386: seed inclusion`.

## Run local VM based autopkgtest for i386

While the following was fine in the past, with Focal that won't work:

```none
$ sudo autopkgtest-buildvm-ubuntu-cloud -a i386 -r focal -s 15G
Downloading https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/focal/current/focal-server-cloudimg-i386.img...
No image exists for this release/architecture
```

First of all, you need a autopkgtest capable of cross arch testing, which is not yet merged in Debian (20210716). (see https://salsa.debian.org/ci-team/autopkgtest/-/merge_requests/69) but exists as an Ubuntu delta since lunar.

If you're on focal or jammy you definitely need to clone git and run it from there.

```none
$ git clone git+ssh://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-release/autopkgtest/+git/development
```
[In our example below that is in ~/work/autopkgtest/autopkgtest]. Do NOT run it from a location installed by "make install", just run it from the checkout location.

Since with Focal you only have amd64 images - to run it you have to add
the architecture
  `--architecture i386`
And setup the environment before the testing starts
  `--setup-commands="dpkg --add-architecture i386; apt-get update"`

Overall that will look like:
```none
$ sudo autopkgtest-buildvm-ubuntu-cloud -a amd64 -r focal -s 15G
$ sudo ~/work/autopkgtest/autopkgtest/runner/autopkgtest \
  --setup-commands="dpkg --add-architecture i386; apt-get update" --architecture i386 <YOUR.dsc>\
  -- qemu --ram-size=1536 --cpus 2 ~/work/autopkgtest-focal-amd64.img
```


## Test for i386 dependency issues

A common case to need this is e.g. if you have an `autopkgtest` with
an error like:

```none
php7.4-common:i386 : Depends: php-common:i386 (>= 1:73) but it is not installable
php7.4-json:i386 : Depends: php-common:i386 (>= 1:73) but it is not installable
php7.4-opcache:i386 : Depends: php-common:i386 (>= 1:73) but it is not installable
php7.4-readline:i386 : Depends: php-common:i386 (>= 1:73) but it is not installable
```

Then, quite often it is secondary or even deeper dependencies that (now on i386)
fail. The tests are in `x86_64` environments with i386 as arch added, you can
easily get that with `lxd` and `dpkg`.

```none
$ lxc launch ubuntu-daily:h h-i386
$ lxc exec h-i386 bash
root@h-i386:~# dpkg --add-architecture i386; apt-get update
# There you can re-create the error of the test by installing its dependencies:
root@h-i386:~# apt install php7.4-common:i386 php7.4-json:i386 php7.4-opcache:i386 php7.4-readline:i386
```

From there feel free to debug as needed.

P.S. quite often this debugging leads into the Multi-Arch definitions of the
involved packages.


## Cross test for i386

Autopkgtests for i386 on Ubuntu run in an amd64 environment with i386 added via
`dpkg --add-architecture i386`.
While that gives working environments sometimes the defaults do not work as
expected by test scripts.
That provides a common error-pattern which gladly also has a common pattern for
a fix.

### `pkg-config`

If run just as `pkg-config` it will return the data for amd64 which either isn't
installed (the test installed i386 deps) or amd64 data for `pkg-config` is
installed does not work for i386. We need to ensure `pkg-config` is called with
the right prefix.

```none
+if [ -n "${DEB_HOST_GNU_TYPE:-}" ]; then
+    CROSS_COMPILE_PREFIX="$DEB_HOST_GNU_TYPE-"
+else
+    CROSS_COMPILE_PREFIX=
+fi
-LDFLAGS="$(pkg-config --libs libftdi1) -lboost_unit_test_framework"
+LDFLAGS="$(${CROSS_COMPILE_PREFIX}pkg-config --libs libftdi1) -lboost_unit_test_framework"
```

Example [bug #974171](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=974171)
submitting this to Debian.


### Calling the compiler

Similarly to `pkg-config` you'll want the i386 compiler in those cases.
Note that the same would equally apply for e.g. armhf on arm64.

```none
+if [ -n "${DEB_HOST_GNU_TYPE:-}" ]; then
+    CROSS_COMPILE_CPP="${CROSS_COMPILE_PREFIX}g++"
+else
+    CROSS_COMPILE_CPP="c++"
+fi
-c++ $CFLAGS -o $WORKDIR/basic.o -c test/basic.cpp
+${CROSS_COMPILE_CPP} $CFLAGS -o $WORKDIR/basic.o -c test/basic.cpp
```

Example [bug #946577](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=946577)
submitting this to Debian.

### CMake

CMake projects (as alternative to `pkg-config`) need the same prefix treatment,
but in CMake syntax.

The following example prepends things in a `CMakeList` file that is later
processed. Other cases created a
[CMake Toolchain file](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE.html)
to then be included.

```none
+if [ -n "${DEB_HOST_GNU_TYPE:-}" ]; then
+    cat <<EOF > "$WORKDIR/toolchain.cmake"
+set(CMAKE_C_COMPILER $DEB_HOST_GNU_TYPE-gcc)
+set(CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER $DEB_HOST_GNU_TYPE-g++)
+set(CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH "/usr/lib/${DEB_HOST_MULTIARCH}/cmake/libftdi1")
+set(PKG_CONFIG_EXECUTABLE $DEB_HOST_GNU_TYPE-pkg-config)
+EOF
+    CCFILE=-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="$WORKDIR/toolchain.cmake"
+else
+    CCFILE=
+fi
```

```{note}
Not all cases need all the statements added in the example above, please test
and only add the minimum amount of changes.
```

```{warning}
This section is a work in progress as e.g. in some cases `find_package` seems to need
further tweaks to work.
```

Example [bug #946496](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=946496)
submitting this to Debian.


(aa-i386-allowlist-updates)=
## i386 allowlist updates

The i386 {ref}`is a partial archive now <aa-i386>`.

### Add packages to the allowlist

Adding packages to the allowlist is one of the responsibilities of the
{ref}`Archive Admins <archive-administration>`.

To do so, update the `update-i386-whitelist` script from `ubuntu-archive-tools`
(typically adding a `newSet.update(['$package'])` entry.

Run the `update-i386-whitelist` script.

Trigger the i386 build either by:

* Doing an upload

* Copying the package over itself:
  
  `copy-package -b --force-same-destination -e $version $pkg`

  Note that if the binary package was built for an earlier release, e.g. Oracular
  for the current Plucky, you'll need to adjust the `copy-package` invocation to:

  ```none
  ./copy-package -b --from-suite=oracular --to-suite=plucky -e $version $pkg
  ```

The copy should trigger a build on i386.

### After it's published

Remove the entry from the `update-i386-whitelist` script.

If the new item isn't pulled in as a build-/dependencies, manually add it to
the [ubuntu-seeds repository](https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/ubuntu-seeds/+git/i386/)

If a source package builds multiple binary packages, and a binary package
other than the one pulled into the seed has dependencies that are not
otherwise included, then this binary package will also need to be seeded in
order to ensure dependency availability.

